
\" ----------------------------- yetris man page -------------------------------
.TH yetris 6 "DATE" vVERSION "yetris vVERSION"

\"---------------------------------- NAME --------------------------------------
.SH NAME
yetris \- Customizable Tetris(tm) on the console.

\"-------------------------------- SYNOPSIS ------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
yetris
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -u ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -l ]
.RB [ -n ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -o ]
.RB [ -g ]
.RB [ -x
.IR (num) ]
.RB [ -y ]
.RB [ -b ]

\"------------------------------- DESCRIPTION ----------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
yetris is a customizable Tetris(tm) clone for the console.
It aims to follow modern implementations with lots of features
and please both casual players and Tetris(tm) enthusiasts.

.PP
It has full textual interface, with colors and many features:

	* Colored textual interface - playable on the console.

	* Upp to 6 next pieces.

	* Hold, Combo and back-to-back sequences

	* Scoring system compliant to the (conjectured) Tetris(tm) Guideline.

.PP
yetris is developed on C and ncurses, running on (most) Linux terminals.
It currently lacks some expected features but is on active development.

.PP
Also, the source code is clean and commented, allowing much better
understanding and easing feature-implementation.

.B Controls:
.RS
.BR "Left, Right         " "Controls the piece"

.BR "Down                " "Soft-drop"

.BR "Space               " "Hard-drop"

.BR "c                   " "Holds the piece"

.BR "z, " "x                Rotates the piece counter-clockwise and clockwise"

.BR "p                   " "Pauses the game"

.BR "q                   " "Quits the game at any time"

.BR "h                   " "Show help window"

.BR "r                   " "Restart game"

.BR "F2                  " "Switch statistics"

.BR "F3                  " "Show high scores"

.BR "F5                  " "Refresh game based on config file"
.RE

\"--------------------------------- OPTIONS ------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Display the quick help text.

.TP
.B "-u, --usage"
Display the program's commandline arguments.

.TP
.B "-v, --version"
Display version and technical information.

.TP
.B "-v, --license"
Display licensing information.

.TP
.B "-c, --center"
Center the game on screen.

.TP
.B "-n, --no-color"
Runs the game without colors.

.TP
.B "-o, --no-hold"
Disable hold.

.TP
.B "-g, --no-ghost"
Disable ghost piece.

.TP
.BI "-x, --next " (num)
Show
.I (num)
next pieces.

.TP
.B "-g, --no-fancy"
Don't show fancy borders.

.TP
.B "-g, --no-outer"
Dont show outer border on game screen.

.TP
.B "-r, --reset-hscores"
Reset all high scores to default.


\"----------------------------------- FILES -------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.BR "$(HOME)/.yetrisrc.ini" "     User config and customization (created by default)"

.BR "/var/games/yetris.scores" "  System-wide high scores for yetris"

\"----------------------------------- SEE ALSO ----------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "petris" "(6) " "netris" "(6) " "bastet" "(6) "

\"----------------------------------- BUGS -------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
Of course yetris has no bugs.

But if any 'misbehaviours' ever occur, please tell me at <alex.dantas92@gmail.com>.

\"---------------------------------- AUTHORS -----------------------------------
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page and yetris were both written by Alexandre Dantas <alex.dantas92@gmail.com>.

\"---------------------------------- WEBSITE -----------------------------------
.SH WWW
http://alexdantas.github.com/yetris/
